

8-ball pool:
____________

The game is played with 15 balls numbered 1 to 15.
There are two ball groups:

    SOLIDS (balls numbered 1-7)
    STRIPES (balls numbered 9-15)

plus an eight ball, which is colored black.
(NOTICE: You have an option to play with all solids colored red and all stripes colored yellow, for better overview of the game.)

First, the balls are racked in a triangular shape and a breaking shot is taken.
For a breaking shot to succeed, you must either:

    pot one or more balls from two groups of balls
    make at least four balls hit cushion

If the breaking shot did not succeed, the balls are reracked and the other player takes turn.
The player that pots the first ball is assigned the group of balls this ball belongs to, and the other player is assigned the other group. If a player pots balls from both groups in one shot before groups were assigned, he is given a choice over which ball group he wants be assigned.

The object of the game is to first pot all balls from an assigned group of balls, and then pot the eight ball.

If a player does not pot any of his object balls in a shot, the turn is passed to the other player. When a player commits a foul, the other player gets a "free shot", meaning he is allowed to not pot any of his object balls during this shot, and still get a second shot.
(NOTICE: A foul committed during a free shot counts as a regular foul and the player is not allowed a second shot.)

The foul is committed when:

    no ball is hit with the cue ball
    the first ball hit is the opponent's ball or the eight ball
    the cue ball is potted

If the eight ball is potted without first potting the whole group of balls, the player loses the frame. Also, if the eight ball is potted with a foul, the player loses the frame.

When a player pots the cue ball, the other player gets "ball in hand" and he may place the cue ball anywhere in the area behind the white line.




9-ball pool:
____________

The game is played with 9 balls numbered 1 to 9.

In every shot the player must first hit the lowest numbered ball on the table.
However, the balls may be potted in any order.
The player to first pot the nine ball wins the frame.

First, the balls are racked in a diamond shape and a breaking shot is taken.
For a breaking shot to succeed, you must either:

    pot one or more balls
    make at least three balls hit cushion

When no ball is potted in a shot, the game passes to the other player.
When a player commits a foul, the other player gets "ball in hand" and may place the cue ball anywhere on the table.

The foul is committed when:

    no ball is hit with the cue ball
    the first ball hit is not the lowest numbered ball on the table
    the cue ball is potted

When the nine ball is potted with foul, it is respotted and the game is passed to the other player.
Practice

This is a mode for perfecting your shots.
There are no rules.
You may hit or pot any ball in any order you wish.
After every shot, you get "ball in hand", so you can place the cue ball anywhere on the table.
You can try one shot multiple times by using the UNDO option (press "U" after the shot).
8-ball challenge

In this game you play against the clock and try to enter the hi-score table.
The game is played with 14 yellow balls and an eight ball which are racked in a triangular shape as in 8-ball pool.

The goal is to first pot all 14 yellow balls, and then pot the eight ball.
There is a 15 seconds time penalty for every foul you commit.
The foul is committed when:

    no ball is hit with the cue ball
    eight ball is hit first while there are still some yellow balls on the table
    cue ball is potted

9-ball challenge

In this game you play against the clock and try to enter the hi-score table.
The rules for the 9-ball pool apply.
There is a 15 seconds time penalty for every foul you commit 


